The renaming of Rachael


A blood feud between vampires must 
be settled in place called wrong.






Words: 2491 - UK English diction
________________


























A wire gate has a rusting metal sign stencilled with "PRIVATE PROPERTY, TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED". The sign is blistered with rust. Carved into the surface of the tin, is a single menacing word. "WRONG"


"Oh my god, this is it? It is real?"


My boyfriend Shaun nods.


"I know the bartender."


The metal gates are padlocked, but there’s a gaping hole in the linked wire fence. Shaun pulls it open, and you bow down and climb through. A sharp wire snags your arm and tearing the lace sleeve.


"Ouch! Oh fuck, look at that!"


A thin thread of blood is drawn across your bicep. Shaun crosses the unscathed and together you walk past an old abandoned caravan. It would have been was an makeshift office. The dilapidated dwelling heaves and rocks. Someone inside is fucking.


"Keep walking" warns Shaun, "they're junkies"


The entrance opens out. The landscape is defined by piles of ripped cars, shipping containers, rotting mattresses and decaying furniture. The ground is cursed with stains of diesel and oil. A cluster of junkies turn and take notice as the two of you approach, the air is bitter with crack, and strung-out addicts stand around a burning barrel.




"Shaun, I dunno about this ..."


"Don't worry, its fine"


"Shaun, I really don’t like this place, let’s go?"


Shaun points to a container near the far wall of the yard.


"There. We'll be fine, really."


The container is painted matt black. It is has two large swing doors. One is ajar. Shaun steps ahead and goes beyond. But you hesitate. The doors are covered with hundreds and hundreds of words. The same word. Scratched into the surface and painted silky matte paint. WRONG. WRONG. WRONG. WRONG. No one will believe you actually went to WRONG.


You open Instagram and take photo, the flash fires but the image is blank.


"Are you coming?"


You fumble and enter the container, Shaun startles you.


"Shit Shaun! You gave me a fright! This is like so fucking awesome!"


Your words struggle to exist like when you’re in the sound booth at college. You look down into the container which has no end, but Shaun just carries on walking.


"I ... feel funny"


You pronounce the sentence, but nothing comes out, there is no manifest evidence of your voice. A dark breeze is tugging you forward. You have been robbed of your senses. Your mind insists that you should run, but you continue, until you notice a distant glowing smudge. 


It is a full-size mirror. It shines in the same way that a black laptop reflects and shines simultaneously. You look pale, self consciously you adjust your hair and then ... you notice Shaun has gone. You can see the reflected outline of the container door behind you, but nothing else. 


Did he really abandon you? 
"Shaun?"


"I am right here."


Jesus fuck! His voice is right there, next to you. And in that moment you understand everything. He is not French. He is not Pisces. He is not studying and he is definitely not a fucking vegan.


Shaun is unborn.


Your adrenaline spikes, you spin around, screaming and sprint for the exit, your mouth bitter with with fear yet you have not moved at all. You are still staring into the mirror, at the colossal void where Shaun should be, when the mirror lifts like a garage door. You both breach the threshold into WRONG. The harem of souls.


Rivers swell and then relax. Tides rise and then fall. Both oblivious to the hex of the moon. They obey. Spellbound. Shaun makes no attempt to force you at all, because I am in your mind now.


Your previous panic dissipates.


What a curious place this is. Cosy, dimly lit and calm in a subliminal way. Old tasteful mismatched furniture inhabit the lounge, beyond that, is an open space where figures twist and weave, hypnotized by unworldly chords and rhyme. In another area, people frolic in sexual rapture, feeding each other with lust, while others recline and draw deeply from long black opium pipes over a flickering flame lamp.


You suddenly feel horny. 


Shaun approaches the bar.


"Lore is Law"


The barman replies, without turning to face him.


"And the Law is Lore"


________________


Your attention is drawn to the orgy, your breasts feel full and ache. Your skin is warm you want to be had, to quench this undeniable longing. You are a cobra swaying to the piper’s tune, but a strange whisper interrupts. It’s soft and familiar. 


"Rachael"


That's your name. Is that your name? Perhaps your mother bestowed it in haste, and all this time you had a different name? Yet, it is so familiar. You have worn it forever. Perhaps it’s worn out? Perhaps the barman knows your real name. Perhaps he has the name you ought to have instead.


Perhaps he can rename you? Here it comes again. The whisper.


"Rachael, not yet, darling, not yet" 


You abandon the orgy and you seek the bar where Shaun is sat. The barman is still busy fixing an order. He pours a Absinthe into a crystal cup for a man in a tailored suit with a congressional pin on his lapel.


"Enjoy" he says with a smile, then turns to Shaun.


"I know what you'll have, and how about you?"


The bar is not exactly traditional. It has the typical bottles of spirit, as you’d expect, yet amongst them are milky glass vials, brown bottles and bulbus flasks. It reminds you of an apothecary in the french quarter of New Orleans. 


The barman is albino. He’s not handsome but strangely enough you like him, but you don't really want to drink. Everything is just fine as it is. What's more you can’t really remember the name of any cool sounding cocktails, if Samantha where here she would know, but it wouldn’t be ...


"Um. Camomile ... maybe?"


"Camomile it is.” The barman lifts his head, his nostrils flare as he inhales, and as a matter of fact he says "AB negative? You're menstruating aren't you?"


Shaun the arrogant bastard nods and smirks. "Bloody Mary."


________________


In humiliation you seethe with rage. The impulse to slap him is transmitted in thought, and fulfilled by the barman with considerable force. Shaun smashes into the floor. 


And you are pleased, your mind proclaims "Thank you", and the whisperer replies "You're welcome". It’s him, in my mind. The barman. It scares and turns you on in equal measure.


Shaun leaps up.


“Fuck you”


He pulls a drawstring purse from his pocket, unties it and empties coarse black charred ash on the counter. A once living being discarded so crassly displeases the barman. 


“I don’t have all fucking night, let’s do this already! Here is the deed as you asked, right? And there’s my debt. She’s a gift. Look at her! Amazing resemblance right?” 


He points at you, and hands the barman a locket of hair. Your hair, bound with a wax seal.


How did you fall for this guy? What’s with the seal? Whose ash is it?


The barman takes the hair, and glances at you.


“She’s all yours dude. What happened ... an accident. Okay? I apologize.”


The barman puts a finger to his lips and closes his eyes, then he puts a pincushion on the counter and pushes it to Shaun, and gestures with a nod.


“What the fuck is this? You know who I am.”


The barman just looks at him. 


“No fucking way! You know who I am”


“Stop. Talking.”


A crow perching in a wrought iron cage squawks twice. How could you miss that? The cage is huge. The barman looks at the creature and shakes his head. Cats start to congregate, creeping along the rafters, and sculking beside some shelves. Three jump up on the bar to watch us.


“You don’t scare me, Balthazar,” spits Shaun.


The barman nods quietly, then takes from a shelf, a small shot glass, a cup, saucer and teapot and walks away.


“Balthazar! Are we done? Jesus!” 


“Shaun? Is that really your name?”


Shaun laughs at you.


The bartender returns, with tea and an antique crystal decanter. The tea goes in the pot, with steaming water and he puts a brown lump beside the saucer.


“That’s myrrh resin. It’s not a trick. It compliments camomile … if you wish, and this is blood”


He raises the decanter.


Shaun leans forward eagerly and in the blink of an eye Balthazar snatches his hand, pins it to the counter, underneath his own, and from nowhere plunges an ice pick through his hand, through Shaun’s and an inch into the wooden countertop. Shaun shrieks in agony. The barman yanks their hands up and dibbles Shaun’s dark blood down the spike and into the shot glass, then he whips the pick out and punches Shaun across the room, at the same time the crow shrieks and the cats leap.


Shaun skids to a stop and is immediately encircled by dozens of feral cats, some hiss and snarl and pace around in a broad circle. Each one pauses to urinate until Shaun is trapped inside a circle of warm acidic cat piss.


Balthazar studies Shaun’s blood like a rare Pinot Noir.


“Lore is Law mutha fucker you can’t drink that! You are not invited in!”


The barman nods. He wraps his wound and pours a some of Shaun’s blood into a mortar, he opens a draw and gets out a short black lamp, normally used to test counterfeit cash. A small yet potent ultraviolet lamp. The most damaging component of sunlight. He shields his eyes and blasts the blood for almost a full second. 


The blood bursts into a shallow flame like burning rum. The crow swoops down and caws while Balthazar gargles an ancient verse. The flame elongates and hovers above it’s container until the crow pecks the empty mortar and the floating blade collapses into a heap of iron filings.


The barman bows respectfully over the pile of ash, which Shaun dumped earlier. He spoons it into his palm and lays it to rest in the mortar, then grinds the ash and iron with a pestle, afterwards, he pours blood from the decanter into a crystal cup and mixes them all together while whispering ...


“In the witness of sins, before daughter of Isaac, with this living blood, I bind you.”


The crow caws.


Balthazar sips from the crystal cup, and immediately coughs violently. His eye widen, he drops his head and with great effort he grips the bar, his body twitches and twists and cramps uncontrollably, his head flicks to and fro, he laments in agony, fangs bare, blood stained, gnashing. The seizure slowly calms down, returning him to his former composure.


The hall is silent.


The music continues to play, but it is gone WRONG.


A great sadness descends and  the patrons start to weep with profound sorrow.


“It was a mistake Balthazar, you must believe me!”


The barman enters your mind and whispers ...


“You were given away carelessly, to balance an unpayable debt. Lore is Law. Please, retrieve yourself, and guard yourself, for this seal can not be undone. You are compromised forever. Leave ... or stay at your leisure.” 


The barman puts the lock of your sealed hair on the edge of the bar.


“Rachael, would you to freshen your tea, it’s cold?”


He looks for your answer.


You go to him and pocket the hair, and realise your mind has been released. You become I again. And with this freedom I reach for the crystal cup, because I want to know. The barman holds the cup firmly and shakes his head.


“It is forbidden Rachael. You’re quartered.”


What? Oh I see now. Hung, drawn and quartered, the old punishment for high treason, and in a similar way; the same as the gift from my mom. I reach behind my neck, unclip and remove a silver chain and pendant crucifix. The quarter that hangs.


I insist, “Let me see”


He releases the cup, and I take a sip, it tastes like semen - not great. The camomile should fix this. I reach for it but I am floating on the ceiling, and looking down upon myself. But I’m not in the bar, and I’m naked, stark naked and spread eagle, and crying because I’ve been nailed onto a wooden X, and bound with rope on my thighs and arms. It can’t be me. It’s not me, yet this other me calls out, begging for help. She can see this me, up here. The room is dark, it’s boarded up, but it’s day outside, I can see the glow around a boarded window. Someone is fidgeting with the shutters. No, not someone, Shaun. He pries open a single plank and a beam of light stripes the floor. I’m pleading, begging him, but no Shaun the cunt pushes me forward until just my lower legs are exposed to the sun, and I scream because they’re on fire. Shaun does nothing. He just waits and waits until my legs have burnt off. I’ve never seen absolute despair before. Shaun pulls me back and waits a moment, stroking my face, then he turns the cross sideways and to cremate my left arm, way up to the shoulder, I’m vomiting, blisters crawl up my neck, smouldering and flaring and suddenly this me, the one looking down from above, collapses onto the floor in the bar called WRONG.


I’m exhausted, and wet with sweat and so hot, so hot, sunstroke hot.


The barman kneels beside me, holding my head.


“Kill him Balthazar. Kill him.” I start crying, but he shakes his head, “please Balthazar?”


He lifts me up to the bar, and pours a glass of water, “but why?” I ask.


“Judgement belongs to the living, but we are dead. Deeds are deeds. He’ll be banished into a beast. Now ... put that”, he points to my crucifix, “into there”, he points to the glass of water, “and heal it from your mind. Do not keep it.”


I place the necklace into the water and drink. True to his word the ordeal, so fresh in my mind, gets colder, and slightly blurred, another sip and it pulls further from reach. But I will not do this. I will remember. I refuse to forget! 


I pour the water onto my face and until my necklace slips into my mouth, and I spit it into the crystal cup which we drank from. A column of fire erupts from the glass, white hot, reaching up like a wind blown ribbon. Simultaneously Shaun ignites and screams and screams, trapped within the circle of urine. I don’t turn around, but I do see, a thrashing blaize of flames reflected in the mirror behind the bar. The fiery ribbon burns through red and orange, and when the screaming stops, it turns blue and collapses upon itself with a violet glow. 


Tonight I have been renamed.


I am Rachael.